# CovidNet
***
The purpose of this project is to explore how the versatility of machine learning can be applied to create a cheaper, faster, bedside method of diagnosing COVID-19 using anterior-posterior chest X-ray images. A program such as this, utilizing deep transfer learning, could be an extremely useful tool for healthcare workers worldwide. As the COVID-19 pandemic progresses throughout the world, hospital resources are being stretched to the limit. Many countries are forecasting a severe second wave of COVID-19 which would further strain resources. Although the program designed in this study can be utilized anywhere, less developed countries without widespread access to expensive CT scans may only have chest X-ray machines and limited access to genetic tests to diagnose the presence of COVID-19 in patients. 
Furthermore, the current COVID-19 test, the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR), has an sensitivity of roughly 80% depending on multiple factors, such as proper collection, transfer and handling of the involved cells, quality of chemical reagents and human factors (humans tend to tire after long hours and can sometimes be inconsistent). In poorer countries, this test might not be as widespread, and even so, results from the test would take longer to process, making it more inaccurate. To analyze and process the data obtained from the RT-PCR tests, a highly equipped lab with both the necessary biosafety measures, and highly trained personnel is required to carry out the diagnosis which may be less common in poorer countries. Labs capable of diagnosing COVID-19 are limited even in developed countries, and the need for such labs is growing by the day. Chest X-rays could provide a quick, reliable, and inexpensive diagnosis test which could complement the current genetic test, substantially increasing the accuracy of the diagnosis procedure. Overall, this program has the potential to streamline the use of hospital resources in the midst of a global pandemic for highly affected countries with millions of cases. It could additionally serve as a useful tool for healthcare workers attempting to diagnose COVID-19, and offer a more inexpensive and accurate method of diagnosing COVID-19, especially in poorer countries.

The largest source of error is the lack of data as even without data augmentation there are 184 COVID-positive images in the dataset. This means that the model is susceptible to accurately predicting the category of the test data, but is not as accurate in the real world. Even with these inaccuracies, the model still fulfills its purpose. This problem can be rectified in the near future as more COVID-positive anterior-posterior chest X-rays become available. 

I would like to thank my mentor Jordan Ash, Princeton University for helping teach me how to use PyTorch and the math and logic behind machine learning. I would also like to thank my father John Shin for helping teach me the medical aspect of my project. Finally, I would like to thank the creators of the COVID-Xray-5k Dataset, the creators of the CheXpert dataset, the creators of the COVID Chest X-ray dataset, the creators of SqueezeNet and ResNet-18, and the rest of my references. 
